A recurring issue when creating an iOS application is the data management. Several options are provided by Apple, each having their advantages and disadvantages.

###Plists files
Good for small amount of structural data (less than a few hundred kilobytes), typically a dictionary. No sorting capabilities in itself.Easy to maintain, but not memory efficient (loaded into memory all at once). Light verbosity.
[See a Plists tutorial](http://nscookbook.com/2013/02/ios-programming-recipe-13-using-property-lists-plists/)

###SQLite
Full-fledged database. Size essentially unlimited. Sorting capabilities are fast and built in. Querying and relational table designs possible. Memory efficient (will load only the data you request). Very verbose.
[See an SQLite tutorial](http://www.raywenderlich.com/913/sqlite-tutorial-for-ios-making-our-app)

###CoreData
Although it can use SQLite to store data, this is NOT a relationnal database but an "Object Graph Management Framework". Very efficient but limited over querying when compared to an usual relational database. Extremely verbose and fairly complex.
[See a CoreData tutorial](http://www.raywenderlich.com/934/core-data-tutorial-for-ios-getting-started)


##Performances VS complexity
Performances over complexity is always a tough one. You don't want to spend 4 days of work just to decrease launch time by 4 miliseconds. The question you obviously have to ask yourself is : *will it impact the end user?*
If your application handle a limited number of simple objects to query, sort and store, there is a high chance that he won't see any difference, whatever data management system you chose. But as soon as your application data scale upward, the need for a performance-driven development increases, and not necessary in a linear way.

As you may have seen from the tutorials on SQLite and CoreData, performances come with verbosity, complexity and are fairly unsafe to use (SQL and Predicate requests only raise error at runtime). Most fortunately, some third-party wrappers are available, and some of them are using the excellent Active Record Pattern.

##Active Record
This pattern is defined as followed on Wikipedia :
>Active record is an approach to accessing data in a database. A database table or view is wrapped into a class. Thus, an object instance is tied to a single row in the table. After creation of an object, a new row is added to the table upon save. Any object loaded gets its information from the database. When an object is updated the corresponding row in the table is also updated. The wrapper class implements accessor methods or properties for each column in the table or view.

More specifically, this pattern allow us to tie our data to its class representation inside our code, and then access it by just calling a specific set of methods on our class (for table operations) or our class object (for specific record operations).

Let's see an example using a wrapper for SQLite, the [iActiveRecord framework](https://github.com/AlexDenisov/iActiveRecord/wiki/iActiveRecord-description).

##iActiveRecord Framework

###Preparation
Let's say you want to store users in your SQLite database. Let's see our Class `User` which will represent our table and analyse its code.

```objective-c
@interface User : ActiveRecord

@property (strong,nonatomic) NSString * firstName;
@property (strong,nonatomic) NSString * lastName;

- (id) initWithDict:(NSDictionary *) dict;
- (NSString*) fullName;

@end

////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

@implementation User

- (id) initWithDict:(NSDictionary *) dict
{
    if(self = [super init]){
        self.firstName = dict[@"firstName"];
        self.lastName = dict[@"lastName"];
    }
    return self;
}

- (NSString*) fullName
{
    return [NSString stringWithFormat:@"%@ %@", self.firstName, self.lastName];
}

@end
```

On the first line we declared `User` to extend the `ActiveRecord` Class. This allows the framework to detect that we will need to store `User` objects.
We then declared 2 properties, `firstName` and `lastName`. These will be added as columns to our table. 3 other tables are automatically added : `id`, `createdAt` and `updatedAt`.
Next, we declared 2 instance methods for our `User` objects, which the framework does not care about but are kind of helpfull to us.

Now let's say we want to create and store some users.

###Storing
```objective-c
User *user1 = [User newRecord];
user1.firstName = @"Steve";
user1.lastName = @"Jobs";
[user1 save];

NSDictionnary * user2Dict = @{@"firstName":@"Bill",
                            @"lastName":@"Gates"};
User *user2 = [[User newRecord] initWithDict:user2Dict];
[user2 save];
```

This was 2 different ways to create and store a user. We can see that the second one might be a good way to initialize and store a user from a deserialized JSON or XML file for instance.

We can now try to query some users from our database.

###Querying

```objective-c
// We can count our users
int numberOfUsers = [User count];

// Fetch all users
NSArray * users = [User allRecords];

// Fetch users based on condition
NSArray * usersNamedSteve = [[[User lazyFetcher] whereField:@"firstName" equalToValue:@"Steve"] fetchRecords];

// Delete a specific user
User * userToDelete = [usersNamedSteve first];
[userToDelete dropRecord];
```

That's just how easy it is. Most of your regular operations become just one-liners. This framework also allow you to specify relationships and dependencies betweens your objects (hasMany, belongsTo...), handle transactions, migrations and more. You can have a look at my Open Source [ColourLove project](http://alexiscreuzot.com/ColourLove/) which make an extensive use of it.


##A step further
The previous example was an SQLite wrapper because I had the chance to use it in multiple projects, some of which needing an environment offering more flexibility than Core Data over complex requests and a better similarity with its Android counterpart, [ActiveAndroid](http://www.activeandroid.com/).

But there are also some great Active Record frameworks out there using Core Data :
####[Magical Record](https://github.com/magicalpanda/magicalrecord)
####[ObjectiveRecord](https://github.com/mneorr/ObjectiveRecord)

I highly recommend to check these out, as they are both good ways to get rid of hundreds of CoreData boilerplate code lines.