##Competition is good
If there are a lot of competitors, it means there is a market. And when there is a market, it's always possible to tap into it by bringing something new and - ideally - unexpected.

##Don't assume/trust people needs
Would you download and use your own app ? If the answer is no, you may have a problem. Ask other people their opinion, but don't get too hyped if the response is overly positive; we all hate to crush someone's dream.

##Choose design over functionality
By focusing on design, an app can be made simpler to use and more attractive to the user. Keep in mind that **most user prefer a nice polished blade to an ugly Swiss army knife**.

##Tease your network at the right time
Offer a quick peek to some - preferably influential - targeted users just before release. This can spark waves of interest via social networks. Don't do it too early though, as trends quickly fade away nowadays.

##Target your communication with surgical precision
Communicating to ten individuals from your target group will often carry more result than communication to a thousand random ones. 

##Monetization is psychology
Users will give money based on how much they value an app, not on how much the app cost to develop. That's why [the most expensive apps are in the medical category](http://blog.sensortower.com/blog/2013/08/27/a-detailed-look-at-top-performing-ios-app-pricing-by-category/). It will even hurt the perceived quality of your app if it's too cheap.

##Allow easy feedback
Users tend to give feedback via the App Store review system. Everyone is frustrated from this one-way exchange. If you want to keep high ratings and quality reviews, you may want to give them an easy way to contact your staff from within the app. An email link usually does the trick.

```objective-c
NSString *url = @"mailto:support@awesomeapp.com?&subject=Feedback";
[[UIApplication sharedApplication] openURL: [NSURL URLWithString: url]];
```
---

Like the article ? Have other advices to share ? [Send me a tweet !](https://twitter.com/kirualex)
